# GLOBAL SOLID WASTE EMISSIONS 2015-2021

## Project overview: 
Solid waste emissions (paper, plastic, glass, metal) enormously contribute to the polution of the environment. Every year, an estimated 11.2 billion tonnes of solid waste is collected worldwide, which contributes to about 5 % of the global greenhouse gas emissions (www.unep.org). 
According to Statista, by 2050, worldwide municipal solid waste generation is expected to have increased by roughly 70 percent to 3.4 billion metric tons (www.statista.com). This is an important issue that requires immediate attention. 

The project illustrates the global geographical distribution of total gas emissions generated by solid waste between 2015 and 2021, highlighting the leading countries regarding the quantity of gas emissions. The project also analyses relationships between gas emissions and population, as well as between GDP per capita and Waste Managament Index* respectively. 

## Key research questions:

- Which countries produced most of the solid waste emissions in 2015-2021?
- Which factors influence the increase of country's solid waste emissions? In particular, does an increase in population number result in higher solid waste emissions? 
- Do 'reacher' countries (with higher GDP per capita) care more about the environment (which corresponds to a higher WMG)? In other words: Do countries with a higher GDP per capita have a higher WMG Index?
- Are there any patterns in the data that the relationships between the variables indicate? 

## Objectives of the data analysis: 
- To clean and gain insights from the original data sets, merge the cleaned data sets for the further analysis
- To conduct an EDA and describe patterns in the data, such as establish correlations and decide which of them to explore further
- To formulate a hypothesis and conduct regression analysis to test the model
- To conduct a cluster analysis using k-means to identify groupings in the data 
- To determine which countries are leading in terms of solid waste emissions quantity in total and per capita
- To illustrate the emissions distibution in the world using geographical visualizations
  
## Data and sources:
- Solid waste disposal by countries provided by [Climate TRACE](https://climatetrace.org/downloads).
- Population by country provided by [the UN](https://stats.oecd.org/).
- GDP per capita provided by [the UN](https://stats.oecd.org/).
- WMG provided by [The Environmental Performance Index (EPI) project](https://epi.yale.edu/downloads).

## Tableau visualizations of the analysis:

[Tableau visualizations for Solid Waste Emissions](https://public.tableau.com/views/GlobalSolidWasteEmissions2015-2021/Story1?:language=en-US&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link)


*The Waste Management issue category recognizes the threats of solid waste to human and environmental health. It is based on three indicators: controlled solid waste, recycling rates, and ocean plastic pollution.
